v0.24 telemetry (#1220)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/what_is_meilisearch/telemetry.md

# Telemetry

MeiliSearch collects anonymized data from users in order to improve our product. This can be [deactivated at any time](#how-to-disable-data-collection), and any data that has already been collected can be [deleted on request](#how-to-delete-all-collected-data).

## What tools do we use to collect and visualize data?

We use [Segment](https://segment.com/), a platform for data collection and management, to collect usage data. We then feed that data into [Amplitude](https://amplitude.com/), a tool for graphing and highlighting data, so that we can build visualizations according to our needs.

## What kind of data do we collect?

In general, our data collection is focused on the following categories:

- **System**: technical specs of the device and OS running MeiliSearch, MeiliSearch version, etc.
- **Performance**: success rate of search requests, latency, etc.

> - **Usage**: adoption of new features, usage rate of features we're considering changing, etc.

Author: Good point, I'll rephrase it and use `such as`.

**We will never:**

- Identify or track users

> - Collect private information such as IP addresses, email addresses, or website URLs

Author: I think this is a pretty big debate. Perhaps it would be better to change this word to `personal`

- Store data from the content of documents added to MeiliSearch

See below for an [exhaustive list of metrics we collect](#exhaustive-list-of-all-collected-data).

## Why collect telemetry data?

We collect telemetry data for only two reasons: so that we can improve our product, and so that we can continue working on this project full-time.

In order to create a better product, we need reliable quantitative information. The information we collect helps us fix bugs, evaluate the success of features, and better understand our users' needs.

We also need to prove that people are actually using MeiliSearch. Usage metrics help us justify our existence to investors so that we can keep this project alive.

## Why should you trust us?

> The short answer: you shouldn't. We feel that it is perfectly understandable, and in fact wise, to be distrustful of tech companies when it comes to your private data. That is why we attempt to maintain [complete transparency about our data collection](#exhaustive-list-of-all-collected-data), provide an [opt-out](#how-to-disable-data-collection), and allow [deletion of collected data](#how-to-delete-all-collected-data) at any time. We believe that this is the only way.

Author: Thanks @gmourier , I like it better than what I wrote!

Come join the technical writing team please, we have cookies 😁 🍪

> The short answer: you shouldn't. We feel that it is perfectly understandable, and in fact wise, to be distrustful of tech companies when it comes to your private data. That is why we attempt to maintain [complete transparency about our data collection](#exhaustive-list-of-all-collected-data), provide an [opt-out](#how-to-disable-data-collection), and allow [deletion of collected data](#how-to-delete-all-collected-data) at any time. We believe that this is the only way.

Author: Ended up not using this suggestion, since it felt a little contradictory to start the paragraph saying "don't trust us", and end it saying that we're doing this to build trust.

> The short answer: you shouldn't. We feel that it is understandable, and in fact wise, to be distrustful of tech companies when it comes to your private data. That is why we attempt to maintain [complete transparency about our data collection](#exhaustive-list-of-all-collected-data), provide an [opt-out](#how-to-disable-data-collection), and enable users to [request the deletion of all their collected data](#how-to-delete-all-collected-data) at any time. In the absence of global data protection laws, we believe that this is the only ethical way to approach data collection.

Author: ```suggestion
Don't trust us—hold us accountable. We feel that it is understandable, and in fact wise, to be distrustful of tech companies when it comes to your private data. That is why we attempt to maintain [complete transparency about our data collection](#exhaustive-list-of-all-collected-data), provide an [opt-out](#how-to-disable-data-collection), and enable users to [request the deletion of all their collected data](#how-to-delete-all-collected-data) at any time. In the absence of global data protection laws, we believe that this is the only ethical way to approach data collection.
```

> Don't trust us—hold us accountable. We feel that it is understandable, and in fact wise, to be distrustful of tech companies when it comes to your private data. That is why we attempt to maintain [complete transparency about our data collection](#exhaustive-list-of-all-collected-data), provide an [opt-out](#how-to-disable-data-collection), and enable users to [request the deletion of all their collected data](#how-to-delete-all-collected-data) at any time. In the absence of global data protection laws, we believe that this is the only ethical way to approach data collection.

Author: ```suggestion
**Don't trust us—hold us accountable.** We feel that it is understandable, and in fact wise, to be distrustful of tech companies when it comes to your private data. That is why we attempt to maintain [complete transparency about our data collection](#exhaustive-list-of-all-collected-data), provide an [opt-out](#how-to-disable-data-collection), and enable users to [request the deletion of all their collected data](#how-to-delete-all-collected-data) at any time. In the absence of global data protection laws, we believe that this is the only ethical way to approach data collection.
```

> **Hold us accountable.** No company is perfect. If you ever feel that we are being anything less than 100% transparent or collecting data that is infringing on your personal privacy, please let us know by emailing our dedicated account: [privacy@meilisearch.com](mailto:privacy@meilisearch.com). Similarly, if you discover a data rights initiative or data protection tool that you think is relevant to us, please share it. We are passionate about this subject and take it very seriously.

Author: ```suggestion
No company is perfect. If you ever feel that we are being anything less than 100% transparent or collecting data that is infringing on your personal privacy, please let us know by emailing our dedicated account: [privacy@meilisearch.com](mailto:privacy@meilisearch.com). Similarly, if you discover a data rights initiative or data protection tool that you think is relevant to us, please share it. We are passionate about this subject and take it very seriously.
```

::::

For more information about configuring MeiliSearch, read our [configuration reference](/reference/features/configuration.md).

## How to delete all collected data

We, the MeiliSearch team, provide an email address so that users can request the complete removal of their data from all of our tools.

> To do so, send an email to [privacy@meilisearch.com](mailto:privacy@meilisearch.com) containing the unique identifier generated for your MeiliSearch installation (`Instance uuid` when launching MeiliSearch). Any questions regarding the management of the data we collect can also be sent to this email address.

Author: Thanks @gmourier !

:::

| Metric name                             | Description                                                                                 | Example
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------
| `context.app.version`                   | MeiliSearch version number                                                                  | 0.23.0
| `infos.env`                             | MeiliSearch `env`                                                                           | production
| `infos.has_snapshot`                    | `true` if snapshots are activated, otherwise `false`                                        | true
| `system.distribution`                   | Distribution on which MeiliSearch is launched                                               | Arch Linux
| `system.kernel_version`                 | Kernel version on which MeiliSearch is launched                                             | 5.14.10
| `system.cores`                          | Number of cores                                                                             | 24

> | `system.ram_size`                       | Total RAM capacity. Expressed in `Kb`                                                       | 16777216

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `system.ram_size`                       | Total RAM capacity. Expressed in `KB`                                                       | 16777216
```

> | `system.disk_size`                      | Total capacity of the largest disk. Expressed in `Kb`                                       | 1048576000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `system.disk_size`                      | Total capacity of the largest disk. Expressed in `Bytes`                                       | 1048576000
```

| `system.server_prodiver`                | Users can tell us on which provider MeiliSearch is hosted by filling the `MEILI_SERVER_PROVIDER` env var. This is also filled by our cloud deploy scripts, e.g. [GCP cloud-config.yaml](https://github.com/meilisearch/cloud-scripts/blob/56a7c2630c1a508e5ad0c0ba1d8cfeb8d2fa9ae0/scripts/providers/gcp/cloud-config.yaml#L33) | gcp

> | `stats.database_size`                   | Database size. Expressed in `Kb`                                                            | 2621440

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `stats.database_size`                   | Database size. Expressed in `Bytes`                                                            | 2621440
```
